docs(releases): stellar GMP v1.0.0 and ITS v1.0.0 (#523)
axelarnetwork/axelar-contract-deployments: releases/stellar/2025-01-ITS-v1.0.0.md

Reviewer: ITS depends on GMP to work, should add a note here to mentioned that GMP needs to be deployed first.

Author: got it, updated.

# STELLAR ITS v1.0.0

|                | **Owner**                            |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| **Created By** | @ahramy <ahram@interoplabs.io>       |
| **Deployment** | @RiceAndMeet <steven@interoplabs.io> |

| **Network**          | **Deployment Status** | **Date** |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | -------- |
| **Devnet Amplifier** | -                     | TBD      |
| **Stagenet**         | -                     | TBD      |
| **Testnet**          | -                     | TBD      |
| **Mainnet**          | -                     | TBD      |

- [Crates](https://crates.io/users/interoplabs-ci)

> - [Releases](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-stellar/releases)

Reviewer 2: link to the right one

## Background

> Changes in the release:
> 
> 1. This is the v1.0.0 initial ITS release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the MVP Stellar ITS release.
```

## Deployment

Create an `.env` config.

```yaml
PRIVATE_KEY=xyz
ENV=xyz

> CHAIN=stellar

Reviewer 2: same chain comment

```

- ITS depends on GMP to function, so ensure that GMP is deployed first.

```bash
# Deploy Interchain Token
[1] node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token --version v1.0.0

# Deploy Token Manager
[2] node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy token_manager --version v1.0.0

# Deploy Interchain Token Service
[3] node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token_service --version v1.0.0

# Deploy Example
[4] node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy example --version v1.0.0
```

> ### Setting up trusted chains from Stellar

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Set remote ITS chains as trusted on Stellar
```

```bash

> [5] node stellar/its.js add-trusted-chains axelar

Reviewer 2: axelar doesn't need to be a trusted chain

[6] node stellar/its.js add-trusted-chains all
```

> ### Setting up trusted chains from EVM

Reviewer 2: same

> - Change private key and env from stellar to EVM

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: Change `PRIVATE_KEY` in `.env` from stellar to EVM
```

```bash
[7] node evm/its.js -n all --action setTrustedAddress --trustedChain stellar --trustedAddress hub
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This is still missing the registration step for Stellar on ITS hub contract. See Sui ITS release doc

Reviewer 2: Don't know why this was resolved, still needs to be addressed. See here
https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-contract-deployments/pull/526/files#r1941411032

Author: updated

Reviewer 2: I still don't see it. Did you see the README?
https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-contract-deployments/tree/main/cosmwasm#register-chain-on-its-hub-through-governance-proposal

Author: ah, I missed it. referenced the doc and sui and updated.

## Checklist

The following checks should be performed after the rollout

```bash
ITS_HUB_ADDRESS=its_hub_addres
STELLAR_TOKEN_ADDRESS=CDLZFC3SYJYDZT7K67VZ75HPJVIEUVNIXF47ZG2FB2RMQQVU2HHGCYSC # Testnet

> #STELLAR_TOKEN_ADDRESS=CAS3J7GYLGXMF6TDJBBYYSE3HQ6BBSMLNUQ34T6TZMYMW2EVH34XOWMA # Mainnet

Reviewer 2: why is this mentioned? this should be part of the stellar config

```

### Stellar to EVM

> - [ ] Deploy Native Interchain Token

Reviewer 2: can switch to numbering here, since we aren't really ticking off the boxes

```bash

> node stellar/its.js deploy-interchain-token test test 18 0x1234 10000

Reviewer 2: symbol should be `TEST` to avoid confusion

node stellar/its.js deploy-remote-interchain-token 0x1234 avalanche $STELLAR_TOKEN_ADDRESS 1

node evm/gateway.js -n avalanche --action execute --payload $PAYLOAD --sourceChain axelar --sourceAddress $ITS_HUB_ADDRESS --messageId 0x1c297d6a2522aa9263d4ac034252486284d58f0c9badf1f0beb009b27c37ab1f-298 --destination 0x549Ec0Df306248e2AbDa6e71a0C0aDf3c9FB7886
```

- [ ] Interchain Token Transfer for Native Interchain Token

```bash
node stellar/its.js interchain-transfer 0xa98974cd02e5ee3d65bff69465a00917f27176bffd72e352c11a78c7a999bded avalanche 0x549Ec0Df306248e2AbDa6e71a0C0aDf3c9FB7886 1 0x1234 $STELLAR_TOKEN_ADDRESS 1

node evm/gateway.js -n avalanche --action execute --payload $PAYLOAD --sourceChain axelar --sourceAddress $ITS_HUB_ADDRESS --messageId 0x1d47435f80dd8c7cdfacd94ec8834b346b354f0087c9b8a305498fdd2b2bd3c2-343 --destination 0x549Ec0Df306248e2AbDa6e71a0C0aDf3c9FB7886
```

- [ ] Deploy Remote Canonical Token

```bash
node stellar/its.js register-canonical-token $STELLAR_TOKEN_ADDRESS

node stellar/its.js deploy-remote-canonical-token $STELLAR_TOKEN_ADDRESS avalanche $STELLAR_TOKEN_ADDRESS 1

> node evm/gateway.js -n avalanche --action execute --payload $PAYLOAD --sourceChain axelar --sourceAddress $ITS_HUB_ADDRESS --messageId 0xd8adcfdd262da322ac5350704ee50afb0a944e5bb08c9e887f11a7528e157de9-461 --destination 0x549Ec0Df306248e2AbDa6e71a0C0aDf3c9FB7886

Reviewer 2: avoid hardcoding addresses, create a `$WALLET` to reuse deployer address if needed

| **Network**          | **Deployment Status** | **Date** |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | -------- |
| **Devnet Amplifier** | -                     | TBD      |
| **Stagenet**         | -                     | TBD      |
| **Testnet**          | -                     | TBD      |
| **Mainnet**          | -                     | TBD      |

- [Crates](https://crates.io/users/interoplabs-ci)
- [Releases](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-stellar/releases)

## Background

Changes in the release:

1. This is the v1.0.0 initial ITS release.

## Deployment

Create an `.env` config.

```yaml
PRIVATE_KEY=xyz
ENV=xyz
CHAIN=stellar
```

```bash
# Deploy Interchain Token
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token --version v1.0.0

# Deploy Token Manager
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy token_manager --version v1.0.0

# Deploy Interchain Token Service
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token_service --version v1.0.0

# Deploy Example
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy example --version v1.0.0
```

### Setting up trusted chains from Stellar

```bash
node stellar/its.js add-trusted-chains axelar

> node stellar/its.js add-trusted-chains all

Author: created a notion doc track this, and resolving on this PR

```

- [ ] Interchain Token Transfer for Canonical Token

```bash
node stellar/its.js interchain-transfer 0xa98974cd02e5ee3d65bff69465a00917f27176bffd72e352c11a78c7a999bded avalanche 0x549Ec0Df306248e2AbDa6e71a0C0aDf3c9FB7886 1 0x1234 $STELLAR_TOKEN_ADDRESS 1

node evm/gateway.js -n avalanche --action submitProof --multisigSessionId 4

node evm/gateway.js -n avalanche --action execute --payload $PAYLOAD --sourceChain axelar --sourceAddress $ITS_HUB_ADDRESS --messageId 0x1d47435f80dd8c7cdfacd94ec8834b346b354f0087c9b8a305498fdd2b2bd3c2-343 --destination 0x549Ec0Df306248e2AbDa6e71a0C0aDf3c9FB7886
```

### EVM to Stellar

- [ ] Deploy Native Interchain Token

```bash
node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action deployInterchainToken -n [source-chain] --destinationChain stellar --salt "salt" --name "test" --symbol "test" --decimals 18

node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action deployRemoteInterchainToken -n [source-chain] --destinationChain stellar --salt "salt"

> ```

Author: WIP

# STELLAR ITS v1.0.0

|                | **Owner**                            |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| **Created By** | @ahramy <ahram@interoplabs.io>       |
| **Deployment** | @RiceAndMeet <steven@interoplabs.io> |

| **Network**          | **Deployment Status** | **Date** |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | -------- |
| **Devnet Amplifier** | -                     | TBD      |
| **Stagenet**         | -                     | TBD      |
| **Testnet**          | -                     | TBD      |
| **Mainnet**          | -                     | TBD      |

- [Crates](https://crates.io/users/interoplabs-ci)
- [Releases](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-stellar/releases)

## Background

Changes in the release:

1. This is the v1.0.0 initial ITS release.

## Deployment

Create an `.env` config.

```yaml
PRIVATE_KEY=xyz
ENV=xyz
CHAIN=stellar-2024-q4
```

```bash
# Deploy Interchain Token
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token --version v1.0.0

# Deploy Token Manager
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy token_manager --version v1.0.0

# Deploy Interchain Token Service

> node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token_service --version v1.0.0

Reviewer 2: See the Sui ITS release PR, Stellar ITS needs to be registered on ITS Hub afterwards

# Set Trusted Chain

> node stellar/its.js set-trusted-chain avalanche

Reviewer 2: Setting one trusted chain doesn't make sense. All ITS edge contracts need to be trusted

Reviewer 2: Furthermore, all ITS edge contracts need to trust Stellar ITS

```

> ### EVM to Stellar

Author: will update this section based on review/comments

1. This is the MVP Stellar ITS release.

## Deployment

Ensure that [Stellar GMP](../stellar/2025-01-GMP-v1.0.0.md) is deployed first.

Create an `.env` config. `CHAIN` should be set to `stellar` for mainnet, and `stellar-2024-q4` for all other networks.

```yaml
PRIVATE_KEY=xyz
ENV=xyz
CHAIN=xyz
```

1. Deploy Interchain Token

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token --version v1.0.0
```

2. Deploy Token Manager

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy token_manager --version v1.0.0
```

3. Deploy Interchain Token Service

- Ensure that `initializeArgs` are correct in `$ENV.json` after deployment.

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token_service --version v1.0.0
```

4. Re-deploy Example with ITS support

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy example --version v1.0.0
```

5. Register Stellar ITS on ITS Hub

ITS hub contract configuration in `$ENV.json` must include the following attributes per chain:

```bash
"axelar": {
  "contracts": {
    ...
    "InterchainTokenService": {
      ...
      \"$CHAIN\": {
        "maxUintBits": 127,
        "maxDecimalsWhenTruncating": 255
      }
    }
    ...
  }
}
```

```bash

> node cosmwasm/submit-proposal.js its-hub-register-chains $CHAIN -t "Proposal title" -d "Proposal description" --deposit $DEPOSIT_AMOUNT

Reviewer: 1. we should mentioned --runAs $CONTRACT_ADMIN 
2. Maybe more descriptive on tittle and description

`node cosmwasm/submit-proposal.js its-hub-register-chains stellar-2024-q4 -t "Register stellar-2024-q4 on ITSHub" -d "Register stellar-2024-q4 on ITSHub" --deposit 2000000000 --runAs axelar1zlr7e5qf3sz7yf890rkh9tcnu87234k6k7ytd9`

Author: updated

node stellar/its.js execute [destination-chain] [message-id] [source-address] [payload]
```

1. Deploy Native Interchain Token

```bash
node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action deployInterchainToken -n [destination-chain] --destinationChain stellar --salt "salt" --name "test" --symbol "test" --decimals 18

node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action deployRemoteInterchainToken -n [destination-chain] --destinationChain stellar --salt "salt"
```

2. Interchain Token Transfer for Native Interchain Token

```bash
node evm/its.js --action interchainTransfer -n [destination-chain]  --destinationChain stellar --destinationAddress [destination-address] --tokenId [token-id] --amount 1
```

3. Deploy Remote Canonical Token

```bash
node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action registerCanonicalInterchainToken -n [destination-chain] --destinationChain stellar --tokenAddress [token-address]

node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action deployRemoteCanonicalInterchainToken -n [destination-chain] --destinationChain stellar --originalChain [original-chain] --tokenAddress [token-address]
```

4. Interchain Token Transfer for Canonical Token

```bash

> node evm/its.js --action interchainTransfer -n [destination-chain] --destinationChain stellar --destinationAddress [destination-address] --tokenId [token-id] --amount 1

Author: This task/comment will be tracked in a separate Notion doc, hence resolving this comment.

# Stellar ITS v1.0.0

|                | **Owner**                            |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| **Created By** | @ahramy <ahram@interoplabs.io>       |
| **Deployment** | @RiceAndMeet <steven@interoplabs.io> |

| **Network**          | **Deployment Status** | **Date** |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | -------- |
| **Devnet Amplifier** | -                     | TBD      |
| **Stagenet**         | -                     | TBD      |
| **Testnet**          | -                     | TBD      |
| **Mainnet**          | -                     | TBD      |

- [Crates](https://crates.io/crates/stellar-interchain-token-service/1.0.0)
- [Releases](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-stellar/releases/tag/stellar-interchain-token-service-v1.0.0)

## Background

> 1. This is the MVP Stellar ITS release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. This is the MVP Stellar ITS release, responsible for <...>
```

Author: I think it's not necessary, cause it's responsible for `the MVP Stellar ITS release`, I think it's self-explanatory. let me know if you have any recommendations

## Deployment

Ensure that [Stellar GMP](../stellar/2025-01-GMP-v1.0.0.md) is deployed first.

> Create an `.env` config. `CHAIN` should be set to `stellar` for mainnet, and `stellar-2024-q4` for all other networks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create an `.env` config. `CHAIN` should be set to `stellar` for mainnet, and `stellar-2025-q1` for all other networks.
```

```yaml
PRIVATE_KEY=xyz
ENV=xyz
CHAIN=xyz
```

1. Deploy Interchain Token

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token --version v1.0.0
```

2. Deploy Token Manager

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy token_manager --version v1.0.0
```

3. Deploy Interchain Token Service

- Ensure that `initializeArgs` are correct in `$ENV.json` after deployment.

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token_service --version v1.0.0
```

4. Re-deploy Example with ITS support

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy example --version v1.0.0
```

5. Register Stellar ITS on ITS Hub

| Network              | `max_decimals_when_truncating` | `max_uint`            |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------ | --------------------- |
| **Devnet-amplifier** | `7`                            | `9223372036854775807` |
| **Stagenet**         | `7`                            | `9223372036854775807` |
| **Testnet**          | `7`                            | `9223372036854775807` |

> | **Mainnet**          | `7`                            | `9223372036854775807` |

Author: Referenced this doc: https://developers.stellar.org/docs/learn/fundamentals/stellar-data-structures/assets#amount-precision

Reviewer 2: Is this for native Stellar asset contract? Don't see how this is applicable, we have our own interchain token implementation that gets deployed when going to Stellar (and not SACs) with different limits. Can SACs only have uint64_max? Not sure if this doc is outdated

# STELLAR ITS v1.0.0

|  | **Owner** |
|-----------|------------|
| **Created By** | @ahramy <ahram@interoplabs.io> |
| **Deployment** | @RiceAndMeet <steven@interoplabs.io> |

| **Network** | **Deployment Status** | **Date** |
|-------------|----------------------|----------|
| **Devnet Amplifier** | TBD | TBD |
| **Stagenet** | - | TBD |
| **Testnet** | - | TBD |
| **Mainnet** | - | TBD |

- [Crates](https://crates.io/users/interoplabs-ci)
- [Releases](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-stellar/releases)

## Background

Changes in the release:

1. This is the v1.0.0 initial ITS release.

## Deployment

Create an `.env` config.

```yaml
PRIVATE_KEY=xyz
ENV=xyz

> CHAIN=all

Reviewer 2: same

```

> ### Devnet Amplifier / Stagenet / Testnet / Mainnet

Reviewer 2: same

```bash
# Deploy Interchain Token
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token --version v1.0.0

> # Deploy token manager

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Deploy Token Manager
```
consistency

node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy token_manager --version v1.0.0

# Deploy Interchain Token Service
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token_service --version v1.0.0
```

> 

Reviewer 2: what about setting up trusted chains? And the registration cmd for ITS hub? Where's the config for that?

Author: updated

## Checklist

The following checks should be performed after the rollout

### Stellar to EVM

> - [ ] Deploy Remote Token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Deploy Native Interchain Token
```

```bash
node stellar/its.js deploy-interchain-token [symbol] [name] [decimals] [salt] [initial-supply]

> node stellar/its.js deploy-remote-interchain-token [salt] [destination-chain] [gas-token-address] [gas-fee-amount]

Reviewer 2: avoid just dumping help text like cmds. add example inputs and detail info to ensure that the destination is executed and this token is transferred after

```

- [ ] Deploy Remote Canonical Token

```bash

> node stellar/its.js register-canonical-token [token-address]

Reviewer 2: pick a canonical token to use, e.g. XLM. make it easy to actually test this

node stellar/its.js deploy-remote-canonical-token [token-address] [destination-chain] [gas-token-address] [gas-fee-amount]
```

> - [ ] Interchain Token Transfer

Reviewer 2: this should be done for both token types

Author: I see. will add it after review

| **Testnet**          | -                     | TBD      |
| **Mainnet**          | -                     | TBD      |

- [Crates](https://crates.io/crates/stellar-interchain-token-service/1.0.0)
- [Releases](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-stellar/releases/tag/stellar-interchain-token-service-v1.0.0)

## Background

This is the MVP Stellar ITS release.

## Deployment

Create an `.env` config. `CHAIN` should be set to `stellar` for mainnet, and `stellar-2024-q4` for all other networks.

```yaml
PRIVATE_KEY=xyz
ENV=xyz
CHAIN=xyz
```

> - ITS depends on GMP to function, so ensure that GMP is deployed first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Ensure that Stellar GMP is deployed first.
```
and link to the gmp doc

1. Deploy Interchain Token

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token --version v1.0.0
```

2. Deploy Token Manager

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy token_manager --version v1.0.0
```

3. Deploy Interchain Token Service

```bash

> node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token_service --version v1.0.0

Reviewer 2: Same comment on ensuring constructor params are accurate

```

> 4. Deploy Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Re-deploy Example with ITS support
```

## Background

1. This is the MVP Stellar ITS release.

> 2. Ensure that [Stellar GMP](../stellar/2025-01-GMP-v1.0.0.md) is deployed first.

Reviewer 2: This should be the first step under deployment rather than background

Author: updated

## Background

1. This is the MVP Stellar ITS release.

## Deployment

> - Ensure that [Stellar GMP](../stellar/2025-01-GMP-v1.0.0.md) is deployed first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ensure that [Stellar GMP](../stellar/2025-01-GMP-v1.0.0.md) is deployed first.
```

3. Deploy Interchain Token Service

- Ensure that `initializeArgs` are correct in `$ENV.json` after deployment.

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy interchain_token_service --version v1.0.0
```

4. Re-deploy Example with ITS support

```bash
node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy example --version v1.0.0
```

5. Setting up trusted chains on Stellar

```bash

> node stellar/its.js add-trusted-chains axelar

Reviewer 2: axelar shouldn't be set as trusted, and not required for ITS to work (you can see how the message is routed in ITS)

Author: updated

# Add all trusted chains to Stellar ITS
node stellar/its.js add-trusted-chains all
```

> 6. Setting up trusted chains on EVM

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Setting up trusted chains on EVM. Similarly, set Stellar as a trusted chain for every other non EVM ITS contract
```

node stellar/deploy-contract.js deploy example --version v1.0.0
```

5. Register Stellar ITS on ITS Hub

| Network              | `max_decimals_when_truncating` | `max_uint`            |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------ | --------------------- |
| **Devnet-amplifier** | `7`                            | `9223372036854775807` |
| **Stagenet**         | `7`                            | `9223372036854775807` |
| **Testnet**          | `7`                            | `9223372036854775807` |
| **Mainnet**          | `7`                            | `9223372036854775807` |

```bash
ITS_HUB_ADDR=$(cat ./axelar-chains-config/info/$ENV.json | jq -rM '.axelar.contracts.InterchainTokenService.address')
ITS_STELLAR_ADDR=$(cat ./axelar-chains-config/info/$ENV.json | jq -rM ".chains.\"$CHAIN\".contracts.interchain_token_service.address')

> axelard tx wasm execute "$ITS_HUB_ADDR" \

Reviewer 2: Why is the raw cmd being used? Look into what the below script is doing (otherwise you're running the same step twice). The README I linked to was only using the script.

Author: I referenced the sui release doc PR: https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-contract-deployments/pull/526/files#diff-3ac0a95337fd4b860b2d109cb1b3315641692b2502579d7c4ecdad24da0ba330R62 
but yeah, removed unnecessary cmds, updated.

'{
  "register_chains": {
    "chains": [
      {
        "chain": \"$CHAIN\",
        "its_edge_contract": \"$ITS_STELLAR_ADDR\",
        "truncation": {
          "max_decimals_when_truncating": "7",
          "max_uint": "9223372036854775807"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}' \
--from <name-of-your-wasm-deployer-key> \
--gas auto \
--gas-adjustment 1.2
```

| Network              | `maxUintBits` | `maxDecimalsWhenTruncating` |
| -------------------- | ------------- | --------------------------- |

> | **Devnet-amplifier** | `64`          | `7`                         |

Reviewer 2: same

| **Stagenet**         | `64`          | `7`                         |
| **Testnet**          | `64`          | `7`                         |
| **Mainnet**          | `64`          | `7`                         |

ITS hub contract configuration in json file must include the following attributes per chain:

```bash
"axelar": {
  "contracts": {
    ...
    "InterchainTokenService": {
      ...
      \"$CHAIN\": {
        "maxUintBits": 64,
        "maxDecimalsWhenTruncating": 7
      }
    }
    ...
  }
}
```

```bash
node cosmwasm/submit-proposal.js its-hub-register-chains $CHAIN -t "Proposal title" -d "Proposal description" --deposit $DEPOSIT_AMOUNT
```

5. Setting up trusted chains on Stellar

```bash
# Add all trusted chains to Stellar ITS
node stellar/its.js add-trusted-chains all
```

> 6. Setting up trusted chains on EVM. Similarly, set Stellar as a trusted chain for every other non EVM ITS contract

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Set Stellar as trusted chain on EVM ITS. Similarly, set Stellar as a trusted chain for every other non EVM ITS contract
```

    "InterchainTokenService": {
      ...
      \"$CHAIN\": {

>         "maxUintBits": 128,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "maxUintBits": 127,
```
The transfer type is `i128`, and not `u128`

>         "maxDecimalsWhenTruncating": 7

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "maxDecimalsWhenTruncating": 255
```
see the decimals type our interchain token uses. `u128` is big enough for any practical decimal values, so no truncation needs to be done

node stellar/its.js deploy-remote-interchain-token 0x1234 avalanche $GAS_TOKEN_ADDRESS 1

node evm/gateway.js -n avalanche --action execute --payload $PAYLOAD --sourceChain axelar --sourceAddress $ITS_HUB_ADDRESS --messageId [message-id] --destination $WALLET
```

2. Interchain Token Transfer for Native Interchain Token

```bash
node stellar/its.js interchain-transfer 0xa98974cd02e5ee3d65bff69465a00917f27176bffd72e352c11a78c7a999bded avalanche $WALLET 1 0x1234 $GAS_TOKEN_ADDRESS 1

node evm/gateway.js -n avalanche --action execute --payload $PAYLOAD --sourceChain axelar --sourceAddress $ITS_HUB_ADDRESS --messageId [message-id] --destination $WALLET
```

3. Deploy Remote Canonical Token

```bash
node stellar/its.js register-canonical-token CDLZFC3SYJYDZT7K67VZ75HPJVIEUVNIXF47ZG2FB2RMQQVU2HHGCYSC

node stellar/its.js deploy-remote-canonical-token $GAS_TOKEN_ADDRESS avalanche $GAS_TOKEN_ADDRESS 1

node evm/gateway.js -n avalanche --action execute --payload $PAYLOAD --sourceChain axelar --sourceAddress $ITS_HUB_ADDRESS --messageId [message-id] --destination $WALLET
```

4. Interchain Token Transfer for Canonical Token

```bash

> node stellar/its.js interchain-transfer 0xa98974cd02e5ee3d65bff69465a00917f27176bffd72e352c11a78c7a999bded avalanche $WALLET 1 0x1234 $GAS_TOKEN_ADDRESS 1

Reviewer 2: default gas token to XLM in the scripts

> node stellar/its.js add-trusted-chains all

Reviewer 2: need to do this per remote chain that has ITS on devnet until the script is ready

Reviewer 2: Yeah, but if the script isn't ready, then the doc needs to mention to do it manually for each ITS for now

Author: yup. updated in this PPR (manual cmds) and will track this in the ticket

Author: updated

WALLET=wallet_address
```

### Execute Command

The GMP call needs to be routed via Amplifier before the `execute` call.

- https://docs.axelar.dev/dev/amplifier/chain-integration/relay-messages

After running any of the following steps, execute the appropriate command to finalize the GMP call:

- For EVM execution:

```bash
# Change `PRIVATE_KEY and `ENV` in `.env` to EVM
node evm/gateway.js -n [destination-chain] --action execute --payload $PAYLOAD --sourceChain axelar --sourceAddress $ITS_HUB_ADDRESS --messageId [message-id] --destination $WALLET
```

- For Stellar execution:

```bash
# Change `PRIVATE_KEY and `ENV` in `.env` to Stellar
node stellar/its.js execute [destination-chain] [message-id] [source-address] [payload]

> ```

Reviewer 2: Move these under the beginning of the appropriate sections. Can just summarize the cmd with `Note: The final execute step of the GMP call on [chain x] can be performed via:`

Author: got it, updated

```bash
# Change `PRIVATE_KEY and `ENV` in `.env` to EVM
node evm/gateway.js -n [destination-chain] --action execute --payload $PAYLOAD --sourceChain axelar --sourceAddress $ITS_HUB_ADDRESS --messageId [message-id] --destination [destination-address]
```

1. Deploy Native Interchain Token

```bash
node stellar/its.js deploy-interchain-token TEST test 18 [salt] [amount]

node stellar/its.js deploy-remote-interchain-token [salt] [destination-chain]
```

2. Interchain Token Transfer for Native Interchain Token

```bash
node stellar/its.js interchain-transfer [token-id] [destination-chain] [destination-address] [amount]
```

3. Deploy Remote Canonical Token

```bash

> node stellar/its.js register-canonical-token [token-address]

Reviewer 2: Pick XLM, or mention above to use XLM (or link to explorer for other assets)

Author: updated

```bash
node stellar/its.js deploy-interchain-token TEST test 18 0x1234 10000

node stellar/its.js deploy-remote-interchain-token 0x1234 [destination-chain]

> node evm/gateway.js -n [destination-chain] --action execute --payload $PAYLOAD --sourceChain axelar --sourceAddress $ITS_HUB_ADDRESS --messageId [message-id] --destination $WALLET

Reviewer 2: Mention that the GMP call needs to be routed before this

```

2. Interchain Token Transfer for Native Interchain Token

```bash
node stellar/its.js interchain-transfer 0xa98974cd02e5ee3d65bff69465a00917f27176bffd72e352c11a78c7a999bded [destination-chain] $WALLET 1

> node evm/gateway.js -n [destination-chain] --action execute --payload $PAYLOAD --sourceChain axelar --sourceAddress $ITS_HUB_ADDRESS --messageId [message-id] --destination $WALLET

Reviewer 2: This cmd is a generic execute cmd. You can mention it once initially instead of duplicating

```

### EVM to Stellar

1. Deploy Native Interchain Token

```bash
node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action deployInterchainToken -n [destination-chain] --destinationChain stellar --salt "salt" --name "test" --symbol "test" --decimals 18

node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action deployRemoteInterchainToken -n [destination-chain] --destinationChain stellar --salt "salt"

node stellar/its.js execute [destination-chain] [message-id] [source-address] [payload]
```

2. Interchain Token Transfer for Native Interchain Token

```bash
node evm/its.js --action interchainTransfer -n [destination-chain]  --destinationChain stellar --destinationAddress [destination-address] --tokenId [token-id] --amount 1

node stellar/its.js execute [destination-chain] [message-id] [source-address] [payload]
```

3. Deploy Remote Canonical Token

```bash
node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action registerCanonicalInterchainToken -n [destination-chain] --destinationChain stellar --tokenAddress [token-address]

node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action deployRemoteCanonicalInterchainToken -n [destination-chain] --destinationChain stellar --originalChain [original-chain] --tokenAddress [token-address]

> node stellar/its.js execute [destination-chain] [message-id] [source-address] [payload]

Reviewer 2: Same

node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action deployRemoteInterchainToken -n [source-chain] --destinationChain $CHAIN --salt "salt" --deployer [deployer-address]
```

2. Interchain Token Transfer for Native Interchain Token

```bash
# Change `PRIVATE_KEY and `ENV` in `.env` to Stellar
node stellar/its.js encode-recipient [stellar-its-address]

# Change `PRIVATE_KEY and `ENV` in `.env` to EVM
node evm/its.js --action interchainTransfer -n [source-chain] --destinationChain $CHAIN --destinationAddress [encoded-recipient] --tokenId [token-id] --amount [amount]
```

3. Deploy Remote Canonical Token

```bash
node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action registerCanonicalInterchainToken -n [source-chain] --destinationChain $CHAIN --tokenAddress [token-address]

node evm/interchainTokenFactory.js --action deployRemoteCanonicalInterchainToken -n [source-chain] --destinationChain $CHAIN --tokenAddress [token-address]
```

4. Interchain Token Transfer for Canonical Token

```bash
# Change `PRIVATE_KEY and `ENV` in `.env` to Stellar

> node stellar/its.js encode-recipient [stellar-its-address]

Reviewer 2: Perform this earlier so private key doesn't need to be changed midway. Ideally, we remove the privateKey requirement later

Author: make sense, updated
